README.md, before:

Compass Typographic Scale
=========================

##### Easy setting of font sizes with pleasing typographical heirarchy, without needing to do any calculations.

Note: This extension is based on the forthcoming Compass 0.13.3 which is still
in alpha. You can install the correct version with:

`$ gem install --pre -v 0.13.3.alpha.4 compass` 

Font sizes are set based on a typographic scale, using an arbitrary conversion
factor. By default, 16px on screen at arms length is considered to be equivalent
to 11pt on the printed page, which would normally be viewed from much closer.
Note that this number is arbitrary and only serves to allow altering the font
sizes of elements while maintaining a typographical relationship.

This extension requires the vertical rhythm module and uses its `$base-font size
/ $base-line-height` variables. It uses that module to set line heights, however
it doesn't force the use of vertical rhythm elsewhere.

An example typographic scale: `6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 21, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72`

Installation
------------
Simply put the extension inside the `extensions` directory at the top level of
your compass project. The extension directory can be customised with the
`extensions_dir` directive in your Compass `config.rb`. A gem may be available
in future.

Set `$base-font-size` (default 16px) and `$base-line-height` (default 24px)
and optionally `$rhythm-unit` and `$relative-font-sizing`. See the [Compass
vertical rhythm documentation][1] for more details.
[1]: http://compass-style.org/reference/compass/typography/vertical_rhythm/

Now set `$ts-header-scale` to the desired points scale (default: 36 24 21 18
16 14) and if you are using vertical rhythm set `$ts-rhythm` to the desired
rhythm for top and bottom margins and padding (default: 0 1 1 0).

You can now import the plugin: `@import 'compass-typographic-scale';`

which will also import vertical-rhythm.

Initialise the plugin:

`@include ts-establish-baseline;`.


Variables
---------
- `$ts-header-scale` – The relative scale for headings, in points
- `$ts-rhythm` – Rhythm to pass to vertical-rhythm (margin-top padding-top
padding-bottom margin-bottom)
- `$ts-base-font-size-points-equiv` – Scale factor i.e. the point size in print
that's equivalent to 16px default font size
- `$ts-double-stranded` – Whether to output classes as well as element selectors
- `$ts-double-stranded-classnames` – Class names to use
- `$ts-use-silent-classes` – Whether to use sass pseudo-classes (for use with
@extend)
- `$ts-outsize-scale` – An alternate scale. Set to false to disable.
- `$ts-outsize-scale-classnames` – Classnames for alternate scale
- `$ts-outsize-use-silent-classes` – Whether to use sass pseudo-classes


Mixins
------
- `ts-establish-baseline` – Sets base font size/line height and resets
vertical whitespace
- `ts-reset-vertical-spacing` – Sets margin/padding top/bottom to 0
- `ts-header-scale` – Set h1 - h6 according to the scale
- `ts-header-scale-with-rhythm($rhythm)` – Or with leading/trailing whitespace
using rhythm `$rhythm` is optional and defaults to `$ts-rhythm`
- `ts-header-scale-with-spacing` – Alias for above
- `ts-scale($level)` – Set any element to a font size on the scale where
`$level` is the index (counting from one) of the required size in the
`$ts-header-scale` list
- `ts-scale-with-rhythm($level, $rhythm)` – With whitespace using rhythm  
- `ts-scale-with-spacing` – Alias for above


The mixin `ts-outsize-scale` gives you an arbitrary scale set up with the
`$ts-outsize-*` variables which you can use in your html or with @extend
independently of the header scale. Of course it also has rhythm versions.

Also included is a convenience function which mirrors Compass' headers()
function but with support for double stranding. Use it like:

`#{ts-headings(1 2)} { /* rules */ }`

Output: `h1, .h1, h2, .h2 { /* rules */ }`

Note that the syntax is slighty different, it accepts a list of header levels
whereas Compass' headings() expects a range.


More Control Over Output
------------------------
By default, `ts-establish-baseline` calls Vertical Rhythm's `establish-baseline`
and resets top and bottom margins and padding on the heading selectors and
classes and the outsize class names. Then when you call one of the
`-with-rhythm` mixins any output for margin and paddings which are zero are
suppressed, to avoid bloat. If you set the variable `$ts-bloat: true`, zero
margins and padding *are* output for the rhythm mixins and the margin and
padding resets are not performed. If you want to supress both the reset and the
output when margin or padding is zero, leave `$ts-bloat: false` and call 
Vertical Rhythm's `establish-baseline` instead of `ts-establish-baseline`. Now
if you don't call any of the rhythm mixins, no margins or padding will be output
at all. If you do call a rhythm mixin, only margins and padding that are not
zero are output.

The word 'bloat' is used a little jokingly here, if you group your selectors so
you're not calling a mixin over and over with the same parameters, or use
@extends, and you are gzipping your CSS (both things you should always do), you
can set `$ts-bloat: true` and still not worry about bloat.

Commit message:

Rewrite to always output placeholder classes

README.md, after:

Compass Typographic Scale
=========================

##### Easy setting of font sizes with pleasing typographical heirarchy, without needing to do any calculations.

Note: This extension is based on the forthcoming Compass 0.13.3 which is still
in alpha. You can install the correct version with:

`$ gem install --pre -v 0.13.3.alpha.4 compass` 

Font sizes are set based on a typographic scale, using an arbitrary conversion
factor. By default, 16px on screen at arms length is considered to be equivalent
to 11pt on the printed page, which would normally be viewed from much closer.
Note that this number is arbitrary and only serves to allow altering the font
sizes of elements while maintaining a typographical relationship.

This extension requires the vertical rhythm module and uses its `$base-font size
/ $base-line-height` variables. It uses that module to set line heights, however
it doesn't force the use of vertical rhythm elsewhere.

An example typographic scale: `6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 21, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72`

Installation
------------
Simply put the extension inside the `extensions` directory at the top level of
your compass project. The extension directory can be customised with the
`extensions_dir` directive in your Compass `config.rb`. A gem may be available
in future.

Set `$base-font-size` (default 16px) and `$base-line-height` (default 24px)
and optionally `$rhythm-unit` and `$relative-font-sizing`. See the [Compass
vertical rhythm documentation][1] for more details.
[1]: http://compass-style.org/reference/compass/typography/vertical_rhythm/

Now set `$ts-header-scale` to the desired points scale (default: 36 24 21 18
16 14) and if you are using vertical rhythm set `$ts-rhythm` to the desired
rhythm for top and bottom margins and padding (default: 0 1 1 0).

You can now import the plugin: `@import 'compass-typographic-scale';`

which will also import vertical-rhythm.

Initialise the plugin:

`@include ts-establish-baseline;`. This is mandatory.


Variables
---------
- `$ts-header-scale` – The relative scale for headings, in points
- `$ts-rhythm` – Rhythm to pass to vertical-rhythm (margin-top padding-top
padding-bottom margin-bottom)
- `$ts-base-font-size-points-equiv` – Scale factor i.e. the point size in print
that's equivalent to 16px default browser font size
- `$ts-double-stranded` – Whether to output classes as well as element selectors
- `$ts-double-stranded-classnames` – Class names to use
- `$ts-use-html-classes` – Whether to output CSS classes. Sass placeholder
(silent) classes (for use with @extend) are always output.
- `$ts-outsize-scale` – An alternate scale. Set to false to disable.
- `$ts-outsize-scale-classnames` – Classnames for alternate scale
- `$ts-outsize-use-html-classes` – Whether to use CSS classes. Defaults to same as `$ts-use-html-classes`


Mixins
------
- `ts-establish-baseline` – Sets base font size/line height and resets
vertical whitespace if `$ts-reset-vertical-whitespace` is true (See below)
- `ts-reset-vertical-spacing` – Sets margin/padding top/bottom to 0 on any element
- `ts-reset-whitespace` – Resets vertical spacing to 0 on the heading elements
and classes and the outsize classes. Called anyway if you call `ts-establish-baseline`
- `ts-header-scale` – Set h1 - h6 according to the scale
- `ts-header-scale-with-rhythm($rhythm)` – Or with leading/trailing whitespace
using rhythm `$rhythm` is optional and defaults to `$ts-rhythm`
- `ts-header-scale-with-spacing` – Alias for above
- `ts-scale($level)` – Set any element to a font size on the scale where
`$level` is the index (counting from one) of the required size in the
`$ts-header-scale` list
- `ts-scale-with-rhythm($level, $rhythm)` – With whitespace using rhythm  
- `ts-scale-with-spacing` – Alias for above


The mixin `ts-outsize-scale` gives you an arbitrary scale set up with the
`$ts-outsize-*` variables which you can use in your html or with @extend
independently of the header scale. Of course it also has rhythm versions.

Also included is a convenience function which mirrors Compass' headers()
function but with support for double stranding. Use it like:

`#{ts-headings(1 2)} { /* rules */ }`

Output: `h1, .h1, h2, .h2 { /* rules */ }`

Note that the syntax is slighty different, it accepts a list of header levels
whereas Compass' headings() expects a range.


More Control Over Output
------------------------
By default, `ts-establish-baseline` calls Vertical Rhythm's `establish-baseline`
and resets top and bottom margins and padding on the heading selectors and
classes and the outsize class names. Then when you call one of the `-with-rhythm`
mixins any output for margin and paddings which are zero are suppressed, to avoid
bloat. If you set the variable `$ts-reset-vertical-whitespace: false`,
zero margins and padding *are* output for the rhythm mixins and the margin and
padding resets are not performed. If you don't want the plugin to set margins
and padding at all, set `$ts-reset-vertical-whitespace: false` and don't call
any of the rhythm mixins; no margins or padding will be output at all.
